<h2>V.10 Out-of-Sequence Addresses</h2>  

In addition to vanity addresses, there is another type of geographically dislocated address called out-of-sequence addresses.  In such an address, the street name does refer to the street where the referenced building entrance is actually located, but the house number is out of sequence with those of the adjacent buildings.  An out-of-sequence address may or may not be so dislocated that the building entrance is on a blockface other than the one that is consistent with the normal addressing pattern of the given street.  Developers sometimes request such addresses because they feel they are euphonious or easy to remember.  

An example of an out-of-sequence address is 62 WEST 62 STREET in Manhattan.  This address refers to a building entrance located on the south side of West 62nd Street between Broadway and Columbus Avenue.  In this case, the out-of-sequence address is indeed on the blockface that is consistent with the normal addressing pattern for West 62nd Street.  However, the building in question is directly to the east of a building with the address range 42-44 WEST 62 STREET.  This violates the normal addressing pattern for West 62nd Street, and for east-west streets on the west side of Manhattan in general, in which the house numbers consistently increase going from east to west.  

Functions 1 and 1E process out-of-sequence addresses as follows.  A warning with Reason Code ‘O’ is issued for any address on a blockface containing an out-of-sequence address.  The output data returned, including cross streets and geographic district identifiers, pertain to the blockface on which the building entrance is actually located.  The Spatial Coordinates returned are those of a point calculated under the assumption that the building entrance is located at the midpoint of the blockface.  

An opposite-parity address contains a house number that is of the opposite parity to the predominant parity on the blockface.  Opposite-parity addresses are processed in the same manner as out-of-sequence addresses.
